# Analytics in Real Time is the process of collecting, processing, and analyzing data as soon as possible after it is generated. 
The goal of real-time analytics is to provide relevant and up-to-date information that can be used to make quick and informed decisions. 
Here are some key points about real-time analytics:

1. Speed of Data : Data is collected and analyzed in real-time or near real-time.
2. Fast Decision Making: The information generated can be used to make immediate decisions.
3. Utilization of Latest Technologies: Using technologies such as IoT sensors, big data systems, and cloud computing to manage and analyze data.
4. Wide Applications: Used in areas such as health monitoring, supply chain management, finance, marketing, and cybersecurity.

Practical examples of analytics in real time include financial transaction monitoring to detect fraud, traffic analysis for transportation management, 
and social media monitoring to understand trends and public sentiment.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a technical sense, data analytics can be describe as the process of using data to answer question,
identify trens, and extraxt insight. There are multiple types of analytics that can generate information to drive innovation, improve effeciency, and mitigate risk.
There are four key types of data analytics, and each answers a different type of question:

Descriptive Analytics (What happened?)
  Descriptive analytics primarily uses observed data to identify key characteristics of a data set. It relies solely on historical data to provide reports on past events.     
This type of analysis is also used to generate ad hoc (as needed) reports that summarize large amounts of data to answer simple questions like “how much?” or “how many?” It can also be used to ask deeper questions about a specific problem. 
Descriptive analytics is not used to draw inferences or predictions from its findings; it is just a starting point used to inform decisions or to prepare data for further analysis.
The descriptive analytics process is as follows:
  Ask a historical question that needs an answer, such as “How much of product X did we sell last year?”
    a. Identify required data to answer the question
    b. Collect and prepare data
    c. Analyze data
    d. Present results
   
    Examples of descriptive analytics include:
    a. Summarizing historical events such as sales, inventory, or operations data
    b. Understanding engagement data such as likes and dislikes or volume of page views over time
    c. Reporting general trends like revenue growth or employee injuries
    d. Collating survey results


Predictive Analytics (What might happen in the future?)
  Predictive analytics utilizes real-time and/or past data to make predictions based on probabilities. It can also be used to infer missing data or establish a predicted future trend. 
Predictive analytics uses simulation models and forecasting to suggest what could happen going forward, which can guide realistic goal setting, effective planning, management of performance expectations, and avoiding risks. 
This information can empower executives and managers to take a proactive and fact-based approach to strategy and decision making.
The predictive analytics process is as follows:
    Ask a forward-thinking question, such as “Can we predict how much product X we will sell next year?”
    a. Collect and prepare data
    b. Develop predictive analytics models
    c. Apply models to the prepared data
    d. eview models and present results
    
    Examples of predictive analytics include:
    a. Forecasting customer behavior, purchasing patterns, and identifying sales trends
    b. Predicting customer preferences and recommending products to customers based on past purchases and search history
    c. Predicting the likelihood that a given customer will purchase another product or leave the store
    d. Identifying possible security breaches that require further investigation
    e. Predicting staffing and resourcing needs

Prescriptive Analytics (What should be done next?)
  Prescriptive analytics builds on descriptive and predictive analysis by recommending courses of action that will reap the greatest benefit for the organization. 
In short, prescriptive analytics tells you what should be done in a given situation. 
It helps executives, managers, and employees make the best decisions based on available data.

A good example of prescriptive analytics is the field of GPS-based map and direction applications. 
These applications provide route options to a destination based on traffic volume, road conditions, and maximum speed. 
It can then prescribe the best route based on user-defined objectives such as shortest distance or quickest time.

Diagnostics Analytics (Why did this happen?)
a. Diagnostic analytics enhances the descriptive analytics process by digging in deeper and attempting to discover the cause(s).
b. The diagnostic analytics process is as follows:
c. Identify anomalies (inconsistencies) in data sets
d. Collect data related to the anomalies
e. Use statistical techniques to uncover relationships and trends that could explain the anomalies
f. Present possible causes

An example of diagnostic analytics is using subscription cancellations, correlated with customer comments and ratings, to determine the most common reasons why users cancel subscriptions. 
Another example would be determining whether there is a correlation between the demographics of consumers and their purchasing patterns at specific times of year.
